Hi. My name is Kevin Jones, and this is the Privileged Scopes chapter of the
Java Virtual Machine: Security class from Pluralsight.
So, we've seen already in this class that we use
policy to make security decisions.
So the security manager via the access controller uses policy, in the
default case that will be a policy file, and will use that policy to make
some decision based on the current security context.
So that kind of security context is typically all of
the callers on the current stack.
So we've seen that the default behavior is to walk the stack frame
and use all the information on the stack frame to determine whether
or not a call should take place. There are occasions where we might
want to change this behavior.
So, for example,
it may be that our main application is spinning up threads. And
it might be that we'd like these security decisions made on
those threads based on the same context that was in use when the
thread was first created.
So it's possible we'd like to capture the current security context and
then use that at a later stage to check security.
It's also possible that we'd like to capture a security context and
then at a later stage augment it or change it and then use that
changed security context to check the security.
And the idea here is that when we spin up a new thread we
can use the current thread's security context to do
security checks on the new thread.
But if the current thread security context changes we might want to
change the new thread security context as well.
And then finally,
it's possible that a developer might want to create
a security context themselves.
So I should create a clean security context.
So in this case, we can sort of take over the security management ourselves.
So rather than relying on what the JRE gives us we can create our own security context and run our own security checks.